When fighting against other humans, standing in the open is the death sentence. Take cover behind walls and barricades, but most objects in the game will block 50% or more incoming projectile without blocking your own if you're standing next to it.
SOM armor is better than marine armor against bullets, but worse against lasers, however bullets can inflict lasting injuries via shrapnel, fractures and delimbing!
Volkite weaponry employed by the SOM can deflagrate a victim, burning everyone around them. Watch your spacing!
Stun grenades are a powerful tool in Combat Patrol, inflicting substantial stagger and slowdown on anyone in range as well as blinding them. Just try not to catch your team in the blast.
Points are scored for permanently killing enemies in Combat Patrol. Get revived instead of respawning to deny the enemy points!
All guns have worse accuracy and scatter when firing on the move. Larger weapons tend to have bigger penalties so sometimes it's better to hold still.
SOM have almost no access to any form of IFF, and the majority of their weapons are better at close range. As marines, keep them at a distance and funnel them into areas where they can't bring all their weaponry to bear!
The Focus order increases your accuracy, while also letting you use aim mode without delay. High accuracy diminishes the effectiveness of cover, so punish enemies behind barricades with some focused fire!
The faster you are moving, the more likely projectiles are to miss you. The Move order gives a bonus to this, in addition to directly boosting your speed.
The more pain you are in, the lower your accuracy. Pop pain killers or take advantage of the Hold order to boost your accuracy when you're hurting.
TerraGov doesn't officially recognise or consider themselves at war with the SOM. Therefore nothing you do can be considered a warcrime :^)
In Combat Patrol, work with your team to flank the enemy and catch them out of cover and cut off their retreat.
Grenades are your friends in Combat Patrol. Flush the enemy out of cover, or use them defensively to stop them from pushing your position.
Most guns have an effective range much higher than the range you can see. In Combat Patrol don't be afraid to gun people down from off screen; watch where their bullets are coming from and send some back!
