Wowza!
Tip: As a xeno, rip and tear, until it is done.
Tip: Unga dunga.
Tip: Shoot the xeno until it dies.
Tip: winners don't do drugs.
Tip: All the cool kids take combat stims.
Tip: Don't die.
Tip: If you're dumb, you die.
Tip: The ship AI takes song requests.
Tip: Get gud.
Tip: Dying is a skill issue.
Tip: Being in crit state is a skill issue.
Tip: Not killing the enemy is a skill issue.
A MRE a round keeps the hunger away.
Good medicine is bad tactics. Great tactics is superior firepower.
Traffic cones make nice hats.
Requisition can buy yummy crayons for you to snack on.
There are stories of strange grey people who sometimes board vessels in distress. Surely nothing more than a rumor...
Rattle me bones!
There is a way to hold hands via secret manouvers of the health-doll.
Stop writing those weird flavortexts. You know who you are.
WHERE IS YOUR BATTLE BUDDY, MARINE?!
Xenos are underpowered, prove them wrong.
Marines are underpowered, prove them wrong.
Mothpeople are a myth and do not exist.
didu know they moth sax on tg
Mothpeople are real and the government is covering them up.
The government is just a myth started by the mothpeople.
Cat girls only exist in another universe, and this is not that universe.
Tips machine is broken, insert more tips.
Sometimes, tips may be lying to you.
Whatever weapon kills you is OP, whatever weapon doesn’t kill you has a bad user.
I'm being held prisoner, forced to write these tips for eternity. Send help.
Unga demands blood.
Occasionally the tip of the round might lie to you. Don't panic, this is normal.
PFC Jim did not make it.
PFC Jim made it out ok.
PFC Jim is trying to get TRICARE for life by serving TGMC for 20 years. Support him by giving him crayons.
PFC Jim has a hot and sexy girlfriend. Pray that no Jodie is going to snatch her up.
PFC Jim carries MRE, and so should you.
The combat conga line is the ultimate power move.
Specialists are removed, go ask requisitions for them.
The TGMC Military Police did not do anything wrong.
There is no such thing as renvager.
Help, an invisible ravenger that breath fire is killing me.
We do not consult warcrimes here.
Rouny exists.
Nanotrasen denies all involvement in the Great Rouny Massacre of 2433.
Contrary to what the name may imply, "friendly-fire" is not very friendly at all.
You can wear a facehugger as a mask.
