Dying is part of the game.
While holding nothing on your active hand, click a person on fire with help intent to put the fire out. This applies both xenos and humans.
You can select locations on the doll by using the number pad.
While you have your throw mode active, you can automatically catch things that are thrown at you, if you are able to hold the item as a species.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, oudated and broken on a daily basis.
In maps where there are water, you can simply run to rivers or areas where there are water to extinguish yourself while being set on fire.
In the character setup screen, you can set your keybinds to control actions much easily.
While alive, use 'resist' (Default: B) to stop drop and roll when on fire. Humans can also use the resist command to struggle out of nests while captured or to simply unbuckle from a chair.
Help Intent (Default: 1) allows you to exchange positions with another mob with their help intent active. Other intents (Disarm, Grab or Harm) will push mobs aside.
When in doubt: Adminhelp for problems in common for people violating the rules, Mentorhelp for problems that you want to know.
Check the SS13 Webmap to learn the layout of the ship or the map currently in play.
After you ghosted out of the game (either from dying, cryo or manual ghost), you can respawn back into the game after waiting for 30 minutes (as a human) or 2 minutes (as a xenomorph) if there is a larva.
To sing, add "%" before any text. Singing on radios will not work, but singing on intercomms will.
You can respawn during End-Of-Round Deathmatch in the OOC tab.
Sundering is a concept that reduces the effectiveness of xeno armor by percentage. Xenomorph drones can heal and decrease sunder. Resting heals sunder, but slowly.
When you want to claim a mob, claim it now! Others will claim it as soon as they are available.
You can customize your ghost using the Ghost Customization command under the Preferences tab.
As either a marine or a xeno, you will die quickly and horribly if you find yourself in a pressureless enviroment (a.k.a spess or water).
There are no such things as macros, only keybinds.
Communication, be it from a marine to a marine, a drone to the queen, or command to everyone, is vital and information on flanks can change how the entire round plays out.
As an alien or marine, be careful of the flank, regardless of if the push is going well or stalling out.
Don't take pills from the corpsmen, they are all trying to poison you and kill you faster. They have an agenda.
Half of getting good is knowing to be aggressive. The other half is knowing when not to be aggressive.
PFC. Jim didn't make it out.
BOO!
The xenomorphs are actually just humans in halloween costumes, somebody should call the cops on these hooligans!
Legend says if you knock on the resin door that guards the silo, the queen will give you some candy.
