Tip: shoot the xeno until it dies.
Tip: winners don't do drugs.
Xenos are underpowered, prove them wrong.
Marines are underpowered, prove them wrong.
Mothpeople are a myth and do not exist.
Mothpeople are real and the government is covering them up.
Tips machine is broken, insert more tips.
PFC Jim did not make it.
PFC Jim made it out ok.
As a doctor, the cryotubes are excellent at dealing with basic damage.
As a doctor, the cryotubes heal internal bleeding and organ damage, although slowly.
As a doctor, surgery time from fastest to slowest is: by hand, Autodoc manual, Autodoc automatic.
As a doctor, the white vest fits on your scrubs and can hold surgical tools.
As a doctor, wear the surgical apron to help prevent infection while on the ground.
As a doctor, you've got access to the chemistry machine, experiment to find the best medications.
As a doctor, hygiene is important! keep yourself clean to prevent infections.
As an engineer, you can take sandbag barricades apart with your entrenching tool.
As an engineer, you can repair barricades with a welder.
As an engineer, C4 is cheaper but det packs are more versitile.
As an engineer, det packs can be set on demolition mode for an explosive trap.
As an engineer, you build barricades the fastest.
As a medic, the medevac stretcher needs to be linked to the beacon for it to function.
As a medic, the marines are counting on you to fix them up.
As a medic, scan before you treat and you can't be beat.
As a B18 specialist, your armor has a built in medical system.
As a scout specialist, you can take your battle rifle or your custom shotgun.
As a sniper specialist, you've got a tarp that can make you stealth so long as you don't move.
As a pyro specialist, your flamethrower has an extinguisher built into it.
As a human, you can do almost anything if you put your mind to it, it just takes time.
As a PFC, you can take two guns, one in the suit slot and one on your back.
As a PFC, you can help out your squad by bringing extra ammunition and food to share.
As a PFC, you can usually get two attachments of your choice from Requisitions.
As the RO, things get more expensive the more often you buy it.
While medics and doctors are best, any human can use a Defibrillator.
Any human can make razorwire with four metal rods and barbedwire from metal sheets.
Using a multitool on a lasgun cell will turn it into an improvised explosive with a random timer.
As a marine, if you are not a PFC, then you have a special room in prep with special gear vendors.
AP bullets are not always better, they do less damage than normal but penetrate more armor.
Did you know, that pistols are not complete garbage?
There is no "best" loadout. Experiment and find what works for you.
Dying is part of the game.
Almost every specialist has been reworked.
You can select locations on the doll by using the numberpad.
As a ravager, anytime you take damage you get even more angry, and thus resist more damage.
As the Queen, you contain the hivemind of all the xenos.
As a boiler, you have the most powerful corrosive acid for melting things.
As a hunter, you have almost perfect stealth if you stand still.
As a drone, your corrosive acid is very weak, but it's better than nothing.
As a larva, ask your queen what you should evolve into.