Dying is part of the game.
Almost every specialist has been reworked.
You can select locations on the doll by using the number pad.
As a human, say '*medic' to call out for medical attention.
As a human, melee a person on fire with help intent to put the fire out.
As a human, use 'resist' to stop drop and roll when on fire.
Not being ready at the start of the round means xenos get more burrowed larva, and that you don't get to play as quickly.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, and broken on a daily basis.
As a PFC, you can help out your squad by bringing extra ammunition and food to share.
As a PFC, you can take two guns, one in the suit slot and one on your back.
As a PFC, you can usually get two attachments of your choice from Requisitions.
As a doctor, the cryotubes are excellent at dealing with basic damage.
As a doctor, the cryotubes heal internal bleeding and organ damage, although slowly.
As a doctor, surgery time from fastest to slowest is: by hand, Autodoc manual, Autodoc automatic.
As a doctor, the white vest fits on your scrubs and can hold surgical tools.
As a doctor, wear the surgical apron to help prevent infection while on the ground.
As a doctor, you've got access to the chemistry machine, experiment to find the best medications.
As a doctor, hygiene is important! keep yourself clean to prevent infections.
As an engineer, you can take sandbag barricades apart with your entrenching tool.
As an engineer, you can repair barricades with a welder.
As an engineer, C4 is cheaper but det packs are more versatile.
As an engineer, det packs can be set on demolition mode for an explosive trap.
As an engineer, you build barricades the fastest.
As a corpsman, the medevac stretcher needs to be linked to an active, powered beacon for it to teleport the patient.
As a corpsman, the marines are counting on you to fix them up.
As a corpsman, scan before you treat and you can't be beat.
As a corpsman or doctor, remember that your HUD will tell you how much time is left to defibrillate a patient.
As a corpsman, remember to bring extra kelotane or dermaline to heal burn damage. Xenos love acid and burning marines.
As a corpsman, hypervene is useful. Use it to purge deadly neurotoxins and larva boosting growth hormones.
As a B18 specialist, your armor has a built in medical system.
As a scout specialist, you can take your battle rifle or your custom shotgun.
As a sniper specialist, you've got a tarp that can make you stealth so long as you don't move.
As a pyro specialist, your flamethrower has an extinguisher built into it.
As the RO, things get more expensive the more often you buy it.
Even if a patient dies a second after being successfully revived by a defibrillator, this resets the time it takes for them to become permanently brain dead.